Speaker,Quotes,Direct or Paraphrased,Article ID,,Missing quotes ,Article ID
Lakhdar Brahimi,"one further step in Afghanistan for stability, peace and reconstruction.'",Direct,1002,,"Almost as an afterthought, the agreement adds that members of the security force ''will respect the laws and culture of Afghanistan.''",1002
United Nations officials,[United Nations officials said tonight that they had ordered local and foreign staff members in Kandahar to remain indoors and not report for work because of unsafe conditions.],Paraphrased,1002,,"But under the agreement signed today, Afghan troops may leave their barracks only with the approval of the interim government, and the prior notification of General McColl.",1002
Stephanie Bunker,"Arab and other elements' in and around Kandahar, along with regular rocket and gunfire.",Direct,1002,,"Defense officials described the selection, arranged in power-sharing talks in Bonn, as partly an effort to secure the support of Mr. Khan, whose forces control Herat.",1004
Stephanie Bunker,"[Ms. Bunker also cited security problems around Ghazni, southwest of Kabul.]",Paraphrased,1002,,Secretary of State Colin L. Powell says Iran has been generally helpful in the war in Afghanistan,1004
Stephanie Bunker,"[United Nations workers are not traveling south of Shindand, about 50 miles south of Herat, and gunmen have been disrupting seed distribution in Farah Province, Ms. Bunker said.]",Paraphrased,1002,," Although Mr. Annan is thought to favor an expansion of the international force, Mr. Vendrell made it clear that he was voicing a personal opinion during his last news conference before retiring.",1006
Maj. Gen. John McColl,"[General McColl did not rule out extending the peacekeeping force to other parts of the country, but said that would require a new United Nations mandate.]",Paraphrased,1002,,"They noted each missing pane of glass, every absent machine. Medical waste was piled outside a window.",1007
Maj. Gen. John McColl,"[Similarly, he said, the United Nations might extend the force's tenure beyond six months.]",Paraphrased,1002,,"They also coincide with government concern about the activities of fundamentalist teachers at Islamic schools, which it has said receive funds from foreign Muslim foundations, in particular from Saudi Arabia.",1010
Hamid Karzai,We hope this will bring Afghanistan the stability and peace we've needed for so many years.',Direct,1002,,"Got the quote but should prb have made it clear that part of it was being paraphrased: In an interview in his office, Mr. Shirzai said his ''personal opinion'' about the incident was that ''there was some tracer fire, so that the pilot assumed or claimed that there was some antiaircraft activity.''",1011
Dr. Abdullah Abdullah,[Dr. Abdullah said tonight that there was no other place to accommodate them.],Paraphrased,1002,,"Without elaborating, Powell said he hopes Musharraf will act in the cases of 20 suspects alleged to have been involved in terrorist attacks against India. India is demanding the group's extradition.",1013
Unidentified aid official,[One aid official said this week that he thought that various Afghan factions had used the delay to arm and entrench themselves before the peacekeepers' arrival.],Paraphrased,1002,,"Speaking from a hotel near his headquarters at MacDill Air Force Base on the 104th day of the military campaign in Afghanistan, Franks said he was confident that bin Laden will eventually be found.",1014
Maj. Gen. John McColl,The majority of the force comes from Western Europe. It is important we take the trouble to understand' Afghan society.,Direct,1002,,Franks said U.S. officials have received vast numbers of reports and rumors about bin Laden's whereabouts.,1014
Maj. Gen. John McColl,We are very keen that we generate good will and maintain good will.',Direct,1002,,Lowell would not say what mission the plane was on or where it crashed.,1015
Maj. Gen. John McColl,"[At a news conference after the ceremony, General McColl said the risks of the mission were twofold. The first was the threat to the security of his force, which he said 'will always be very high.' The second was the danger that his force might trample on the sensitivities of the Afghan people.]",Paraphrased,1002,,"Government-run Kabul TV announced that Taj Mohammad Wardak, a former governor of several other provinces, was being appointed in Paktia.",1015
Gen. Richard B. Myers,[Two senior Al Qaeda fighters were among 14 suspected terrorists detained by United States forces in eastern Afghanistan],Paraphrased,1003,,The Gardez council said Wednesday that it was willing to accept Wardak as governor.,1015
Gen. Richard B. Myers,"[Also seized were laptop computers, cellphones, small arms and training documents]",Paraphrased,1003,, Local residents told reporters the victims were ordinary Afghans.,1015
Gen. Richard B. Myers,"[The two were transferred for questioning to Kandahar, where suspected Al Qaeda and Taliban fighters have been undergoing interrogation]",Paraphrased,1003,,"Lester Grau, with the Army's Foreign Military Studies Office at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., described in 1998 how Afghan mujahedeen fighting the Soviets adapted the RPG to take down transport helicopters loaded with troops.",1018
Gen. Richard B. Myers,They were the ones of interest that we thought were senior enough where they might have the kind of information that we're looking for in terms of . . . future operations and so forth.,Direct,1003,,"British Flight Lt. Tony Marshall, an ISAF spokesman, said Friday's episode did not raise new concerns about having a large armed Afghan faction inside the capital.",1019
Gen. Richard B. Myers,[The total of suspected Al Qaeda and Taliban detainees now numbers 364],Paraphrased,1003,,"In addition, all of the prisoners interviewed said relatives had to bribe prison officials to win their release, most citing a figure of about $500.",1020
Gen. Richard B. Myers,I'm going to leave it at soon.,Direct,1003,,"Their release came after a visit from a delegation from the southern city of Kandahar, which negotiated with Dostum's representatives, the prisoners said. ",1020
Gen. Richard B. Myers,"Soon is about as good as I can do, because, as I said before, we've got to ensure that the facilities on Guantánamo are sufficient to hold the type of detainees that we're going to hold.",Direct,1003,,He added that things improved when the Red Cross arrived - although many inmates claimed the guards took a large part of the donated food.,1020
Gen. Richard B. Myers,[The Zawar Kili complex has been repeatedly bombed by United States warplanes and two more airstrikes were carried out on the compound Monday night],Paraphrased,1003,," Those freed said the delegation included Mohammed Shah, the brother of Kandahar Gov. Gul Agha.",1020
Gen. Richard B. Myers,"[An F-14 dropped two precision-guided bombs on one building, and an F-18 dropped two more guided bombs on a bunker]",Paraphrased,1003,,,
Gen. Richard B. Myers,"We have found this complex to be very, very extensive.",Direct,1003,,,
Gen. Richard B. Myers,"It covers a large area. When we ask people how large, they often describe it as huge.",Direct,1003,,,
Pentagon and intelligence officials,Iran is seeking to exert political and military influence in border regions in western Afghanistan in ways that challenge the authority of the interim government in Kabul and threaten Washington's long-term goals in the country,Paraphrased,1004,,,
Officials,Iran has grown increasingly concerned about the pro-Western tilt of Afghanistan's government and is moving to flex its muscle in a part of Afghanistan where it has long held sway,Paraphrased,1004,,,
Defense official,"Iran is trying to make sure that Afghanistan remains an Islamic state and does not become more secular, like Turkey",Direct,1004,,,
Pentagon officials,"Iran, which opposed the Taliban and viewed Al Qaeda with caution, is giving safe haven to small numbers of Al Qaeda fighters fleeing Afghanistan, with the view that Al Qaeda will fight to weaken Western influence",Paraphrased,1004,,,
United States Special Forces,"Iranian agents are infiltrating the area, threatening some tribal leaders and bribing other local leaders to undermine American-backed programs in one of the most lawless provinces of Afghanistan",Paraphrased,1004,,,
Senior military official,Iran is trying to stir up mischief,Direct,1004,,,
Senior military official,"So far we haven't taken any action, but we're keeping a very close eye on it",Direct,1004,,,
Richard N. Haass,"By and large, the Iranian role diplomatically has been quite constructive",Direct,1004,,,
Richard N. Haass,I'm not saying we see everything eye to eye here,Direct,1004,,,
United Nations,"Tens of thousands of refugees have returned to the Herat area, with hundreds of families arriving every day",Paraphrased,1004,,,
Prof. Barnett R. Rubin,I'm sure Iran would be concerned about a United States military presence on its border,Direct,1004,,,
Prof. Barnett R. Rubin,I wouldn't necessarily say theirs is an aggressive terrorist position. It's quite a reasonable security concern,Direct,1004,,,
State Department official,"From the Iranian point of view, they're probably feeling pretty threatened in Afghanistan right now. There are some things we're working in parallel with the Iranians, and some things they're going at in a different direction. We don't have identical goals in Afghanistan",Direct,1004,,,
American officials,"There have been regular flights from Tehran to Damascus, Syria, carrying arms for Hezbollah's use in Lebanon",Paraphrased,1004,,,
American officials,Tehran has expanded its support for Palestinian terrorists,Paraphrased,1004,,,
United States intelligence reports,Iranian intelligence officers were working in Afghanistan against the Taliban as early as 1996,Paraphrased,1004,,,
Ismail Khan,Iran is the best model of an Islamic country in the world and we approve of the policy of Iran,Direct,1004,,,
American official,That remains to be seen. Loyalties in Afghanistan are often fungible,Direct,1004,,,
Senior Pentagon officials,"[American warplanes were continuing to bomb the Al Qaeda training compound in eastern Afghanistan near Zawar Kili, but they said the operation was nearly complete and that American forces would focus their attention elsewhere in their search for pockets of Taliban and Al Qaeda forces.]",Paraphrased,1005,,,
Senior Pentagon officials,"[After more than a week of bombing, bombers and fighter jets had destroyed nearly 60 buildings, closed 50 cave entrances and demolished tanks and artillery equipment at the nine square-mile complex that Al Qaeda fighters had until very recently used as a transit station on their way to Pakistan.]",Paraphrased,1005,,,
Rear Adm. John Stufflebeem,"""It it is now time to go look elsewhere.""",Direct,1005,,,
Base spokesman,"[The second group, which left Kandahar on Sunday under heavy guard aboard a C-17 cargo jet, arrived at the naval base in Cuba this afternoon.]",Paraphrased,1005,,,
Officials,"[Among the 50 prisoners held at the base are an Australian, a British citizen and, possibly, a Frenchman.]",Paraphrased,1005,,,
Pentagon spokeswoman Victoria Clarke,"""Each day, the detainees are given three culturally-appropriate meals. They have daily opportunities to shower, exercise and receive medical attention. So in accordance with the Geneva Convention, they are receiving very humane treatment.""",Direct,1005,,,
Rear Adm. John Stufflebeem,"[American military commanders remained concerned that the sprawling Zawar Kili complex was not unique, and that the Afghan mountains in the east and south might still be riddled with large underground bunker systems that could provide safe havens for Taliban and Al Qaeda soldiers trying to regroup.]",Paraphrased,1005,,,
Rear Adm. John Stufflebeem,"""There are likely other valleys with other complexes.""",Direct,1005,,,
Pentagon officials,[The bodies of six of the Marines who died in the crash of a KC-130 tanker plane in southwestern Pakistan last week arrived at Dover Air Force Base today. The body of the seventh and last Marine who died in that fiery crash has not been found.],Paraphrased,1005,,,
Rear Adm. John Stufflebeem,[The cause of the crash remains under investigation.],Paraphrased,1005,,,
Military officials,"[The Pentagon was looking into ways of relieving stress on pilots and crews responsible for the air combat patrols being regularly flown over New York City, Washington and, more sporadically, 30 other American cities. But the officials said no decisions have been made to cut back the patrols.]",Paraphrased,1005,,,
Francesc Vendrell,The main thing is that there is a level of uncertainty all over Afghanistan. The situation is fragile.,Direct,1006,,,
Francesc Vendrell,[He had concluded that a much larger foreign troop presence could be the crucial factor in creating stability and curbing the lawlessness that has followed the Taliban's collapse.],Paraphrased,1006,,,
Francesc Vendrell,"[He thought that 35,000 troops might be necessary to make the International Security Assistance Force into a viable force for fostering peace across Afghanistan.]",Paraphrased,1006,,,
Francesc Vendrell,Certainly not an exaggeration.,Direct,1006,,,
Gul Agha Shirzai,We are here because we support the loya jirga and because we want the king to return.,Direct,1006,,,
Gul Agha Shirzai,"I want all of you to be united and work for the loya jirga, which will bring peace and stability to our country.",Direct,1006,,,
Gul Agha Shirzai,"I have heard a lot of rumors that we have prepared 20,000 troops to fight Herat or Ismail Khan.",Direct,1006,,,
Gul Agha Shirzai,We are not going to do anything like that because we have a central government and the central government will decide what to do.,Direct,1006,,,
Naseer Ahmed,We hope that the U.S. government will never leave us.,Direct,1006,,,
Naseer Ahmed,"As long as we are under the control of a superpower, anyone who fights will face the same fate as the Taliban.",Direct,1006,,,
Senior American officials,[The Afghans must take responsibility for their own security.],Paraphrased,1006,,,
Francesc Vendrell,"[His call to expand the present security force of 4,500 soldiers came close to challenging the position of the United States, which has opposed a major buildup of the international force.]",Paraphrased,1006,,,
Abdul Aziz,I remember when the Americans were leaving the city -- they were sitting in their cars and I said goodbye to them.,Direct,1007,,,
Abdul Aziz,"From that time until now, there has been nothing good here.",Direct,1007,,,
Dr. Nissamrahmed Barak,We do not have the facilities to find out what kind of disease someone has.,Direct,1007,,,
Sadik,"[He thought Rosia, a pale 7-month-old, had leukemia, but he could not test for certainty.]",Paraphrased,1007,,,
Sadik,"[He was advising a blood transfusion, hoping her blood type matched that of her parents.]",Paraphrased,1007,,,
Sergeant Craig Bighouse,That's why they avoided the question about waste disposal.,Direct,1007,,,
Sergeant Craig Bighouse,They need equipment so bad.,Direct,1007,,,
Sergeant Craig Bighouse,[He promised to try to get money for a face-lift.],Paraphrased,1007,,,
Abdul Rahim,"I was thinking sometimes, when there was fighting, that the Americans had left Afghanistan, and they had never looked behind.",Direct,1007,,,
Lt. Col. Dave Lapan,[The incident was not related to hostile fire.],Paraphrased,1008,,,
Lt. Col. Dave Lapan,"[The explosion happened at about 11:30 a.m. local time, or 3 a.m. Eastern time, as the soldiers were disposing of 107-millimeter rockets.]",Paraphrased,1008,,,
Maj. Ralph Mills,It was an accident.,Direct,1008,,,
Maj. Bryan Hilferty,[The explosions came near the spot where two rocket-propelled grenades exploded on Saturday night.],Paraphrased,1008,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,They were afraid.,Direct,1009,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,"The children were running, the women were hiding, which is usual in this culture. The men were not in evidence.",Direct,1009,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,"[His men moved from house to house, breaking some doors and locks as they searched.]",Paraphrased,1009,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,"We fired one shot, when a dog attacked a soldier and he killed it.",Direct,1009,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,"It was unfortunate, but we cannot risk getting rabies.",Direct,1009,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,"[His soldiers found three hidden loads of weapons, including machine-gun ammunition and mortar rounds primed to be fired.]",Paraphrased,1009,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,They were under rope and blankets.,Direct,1009,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,[The villagers were not happy.],Paraphrased,1009,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,They knew people had been hit in that village.,Direct,1009,,,
Lt. Col. Patrick Fetterman,They should not have been surprised that we came. But they saw clearly that we were as minimally intrusive as possible.,Direct,1009,,,
Dutch Internal Security Agency,"[A network of Islamic militants has been recruiting young Muslim immigrants at mosques in the Netherlands, urging them to join the 'holy war' in places like Afghanistan or Kashmir.]",Paraphrased,1010,,,
Dutch Internal Security Agency,[Groups with links to Al Qaeda have instructed their Dutch Muslim followers that they should join the Dutch Army in order to get military training.],Paraphrased,1010,,,
Sybrand van Hulst,[There was as yet no evidence that the recruiters themselves were from Al Qaeda.],Paraphrased,1010,,,
Sybrand van Hulst,[The recruiters were apparently from the Algerian Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat and other groups from the Middle East.],Paraphrased,1010,,,
Dutch Internal Security Agency,"[As evidence of ongoing recruitment, the agency disclosed that two Dutch-born sons of Moroccan parents were found dead in January in Kashmir, where they had apparently joined Muslim rebels fighting against India.]",Paraphrased,1010,,,
Dutch Internal Security Agency,"[The two men had been killed by Indian security forces, who told the Dutch that the men were suicide fighters who had tried to kill Indian border guards.]",Paraphrased,1010,,,
Government official,"[In recent months, the government has stepped up its surveillance of religious and political groups in schools and mosques.]",Paraphrased,1010,,,
Government official,"[Some of the Islamic schools are teaching anti-Western attitudes, for instance that Muslims should battle people until they believed that Allah is the only God.]",Paraphrased,1010,,,
Gul Agha Shirzai,I thought the American-led attack that killed and injured scores of villagers in Oruzgan Province last week would prove to have been caused by an error of the pilot of the AC-130 gunship involved.,Direct,1011,,,
Gul Agha Shirzai,[The attack -- aimed at senior Taliban members reported to be hiding in the area -- had in any case probably been based on faulty intelligence.],Paraphrased,1011,,,
Gul Agha Shirzai,[He had called together the leaders of all six provinces in his jurisdiction to improve intelligence with a comprehensive plan for tracking Taliban movements and planning operations in the area.],Paraphrased,1011,,,
An official with the International Committee of the Red Cross,"[The death toll in the July 1 attack on the village of Kakrak and several surrounding villages has now risen to 54, quoting local authorities. One person is missing and more than 120 people were wounded.]",Paraphrased,1011,,,
United States military officials,[The plane was reacting to antiaircraft fire aimed from several different locations.],Paraphrased,1011,,,
Pentagon officials,"[A formal investigation would begin within 48 hours. The 12- to 15-member team, which is to have more official responsibilities than a preliminary fact-finding inquiry conducted last week, will be directed by an Air Force general and will include experts in combat air control and operations of AC-130 gunships.]",Paraphrased,1011,,,
Victoria Clarke,"The team will take as long as they need to tour the sites, interview villagers, pilots, forward air controllers and Special Forces, and to do as thorough as possible a job on the investigation.",Direct,1011,,,
Gul Agha Shirzai,"My personal opinion about the incident was that there was some tracer fire, so that the pilot assumed or claimed that there was some antiaircraft activity.",Direct,1011,,,
Gul Agha Shirzai,This is not the first time. Canadian troops were killed by an aircraft not long ago.,Direct,1011,,,
Survivors of the attack,"[People at two engagement parties, one in Kakrak and one in the village of Siya Sang, had fired Kalashnikov rifles into the air in an act of celebration that is typical in Afghanistan. They denied that an antiaircraft gun or any other heavy weapon had been used or that the planes had been targets of the celebratory gunfire.]",Paraphrased,1011,,,
An aide,"[Before the incident, Mr. Shirzai and intelligence officials had contributed some 200 Afghan soldiers to the American-led operation under way in Oruzgan, which was intended to cordon off and search several villages suspected of harboring senior Taliban officials. An AC-130 gunship was present to provide air support.]",Paraphrased,1011,,,
A Pentagon official,[The mission had been based on evidence of 'high-value individuals' in the area.],Paraphrased,1011,,,
Authorities in Kandahar,"[The United States had operated on flawed intelligence. Word that a senior Taliban commander, Mullah Bradar, and even the top leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, were in the village may have been supplied by someone who wanted the village to be attacked.]",Paraphrased,1011,,,
Zalmay Horiakhail,"""All the people of Kabul are interested in these. They've suffered in the last five years and haven't been allowed to see such things.""",Direct,1012,,,
Zalmay Horiakhail,"""I'd be really interested in a good cop movie.""",Direct,1012,,,
Mirwais Samandari,"""Bigger dish, more channels.""",Direct,1012,,,
Mirwais Samandari,"""For a family, India is the best,"" Samandari said. ""Those others sometimes have people with no clothes. India is in the region and more like our culture.""",Direct,1012,,,
Abdul Rahim Sayed Jan,"""If you keep people busy with satellite TV, how can you get them to reconstruct their country?""",Direct,1012,,,
Abdul Rahim Sayed Jan,"""With the TV, we can guide people, educate them, help them understand what effect the democratic system will have on their lives. That's what they need, not entertainment.""",Direct,1012,,,
Abdul Rahim Sayed Jan,"""People should not use this opportunity to invade our culture.""",Direct,1012,,,
Omid Shirzai,"[He estimates that, after the buying run of recent weeks, 20 percent of Kabulis have satellite dishes.]",Paraphrased,1012,,,
Said Sarwal,"""Ninety-five percent of people are interested in getting one. They all tell me that. But they can't afford it yet.""",Direct,1012,,,
Said Sarwal,"""If the USA will help Afghanistan, we'll all be able to get satellite dishes one day.""",Direct,1012,,,
Colin Powell,"""There is room for additional work"" by Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf to ease renewed tensions with India.",Direct,1013,,,
Colin Powell,[Powell has been waging an intense telephone campaign to urge restraint from the two sides.],Paraphrased,1013,,,
Colin Powell,[The secretary praised Musharraf for ordering the arrest of some radical Islamic militants and closing some offices but said the Pakistani leader could do more.],Paraphrased,1013,,,
Colin Powell,"I have seen that list, and I know that President Musharraf has the list.",Direct,1013,,,
Colin Powell,"We have discussed the list with him. I know he is examining it, and I hope he will take appropriate action on this list. But it is in his hands.",Direct,1013,,,
Lal K. Advani,"""Pakistan could shut off the flow of infiltrators at any time.""",Direct,1013,,,
Lal K. Advani,[Advani told a news conference at the Indian Embassy that infiltrators are pouring into India from Pakistan to carry out sabotage and terror.],Paraphrased,1013,,,
Lal K. Advani,"India has shown ""immense restraint"" in dealing with its neighbor and ""has not taken a single step that could be regarded as a provocation.""",Direct,1013,,,
Lal K. Advani,[He reaffirmed India's policy of not being the first to use nuclear weapons.],Paraphrased,1013,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"""I honestly don't know where he is.""",Direct,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"""The world is not a large enough place for him today.""",Direct,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"""He may hide today, he may hide tomorrow, but the world is not large enough a place for him to hide"" indefinitely.",Direct,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"""Bin Laden could be alive, dead, or in Afghanistan, or not.""",Direct,1014,,,
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld,[The Pentagon's working assumption is that bin Laden and other senior al-Qaida figures are still inside Afghanistan.],Paraphrased,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"[Franks dismissed speculation by Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf that bin Laden may have died of kidney failure, stating that nothing in his intelligence reports confirmed or denied that.]",Paraphrased,1014,,,
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf,"""I think now, frankly, he is dead for the reason that he is a patient, a kidney patient.""",Direct,1014,,,
Unidentified U.S. Official,"[U.S. officials have no evidence that bin Laden has had severe kidney problems, much less died of them.]",Paraphrased,1014,,,
Unidentified U.S. Official,[U.S. intelligence officials are growing more worried that the next al-Qaida terrorist attack will be carried out by non-Arabs in order to circumvent heightened security concerns directed at Arabs around the globe.],Paraphrased,1014,,,
White House spokesman Ari Fleischer,"""I don't think the president would view that as an unwelcome event.""",Direct,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"""Up to this point, we have denied the validity of all of the information that we have received.""",Direct,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"[Franks said U.S. troops in Afghanistan have been meticulously searching Taliban and al-Qaida safehouses, caves, and other sites where they have found documents and other materials.]",Paraphrased,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"""That is, of course, the very first thing we're looking for - to be able to pre-empt activity that may have already been planned.""",Direct,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,[Franks said information gleaned from Afghanistan helped authorities in Singapore disrupt a planned terrorist action against U.S. facilities in that country.],Paraphrased,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,[Franks said other information has led to the arrests of terrorist suspects elsewhere.],Paraphrased,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,[Franks said there are new signs that a degree of normalcy is beginning to return to Afghanistan.],Paraphrased,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"[Franks said 35,000 refugees had returned to their homes in the past two weeks and schools are beginning to reopen.]",Paraphrased,1014,,,
Gen. Tommy Franks,"[Franks added that 80 female staff members have returned to Kabul University - ""unheard of but a few months ago"" - and 200 women have registered for classes next semester.]",Paraphrased,1014,,,
Maj. Ralph Mills,The firefight at Kandahar lasted about 15 to 20 minutes and the shooting appeared to be coming from two different positions north and west of the airfield.,Direct,1015,,,
Maj. Ralph Mills,U.S. troops shot illumination rounds and returned fire with machine guns in the direction of the shooting.,Paraphrased,1015,,,
Maj. Ralph Mills,Apache helicopter gunships were dispatched 'to try to find out where the fire was coming from and who was doing it.',Direct,1015,,,
Maj. Ralph Mills,Seven people were detained.,Paraphrased,1015,,,
U.S. officials,They turned out to be part of the U.S.-backed Afghan security force and were released.,Paraphrased,1015,,,
Maj. Ralph Mills,I think it's safe to say it was pretty ineffective because the airfield was not penetrated at all.,Direct,1015,,,
Maj. Ralph Mills,"An Army soldier based at Bagram airfield, 40 miles north of Kabul, died Wednesday of injuries he suffered when the heavy equipment he was working on fell on him.",Paraphrased,1015,,,
Maj. Brad Lowell,Eight U.S. soldiers were injured Tuesday evening when their Air Force transport plane crashed.,Paraphrased,1015,,,
Maj. Brad Lowell,"None of the eight aboard the MC-130P that went down in a remote part of Afghanistan sustained life-threatening injuries, and seven could still walk.",Direct,1015,,,
Central Command,The cause of the crash was unknown but it did not appear to be the result of hostile fire.,Direct,1015,,,
Lt. Col. Dave Lapan,"Of the 20 soldiers who have died, one was killed by hostile fire.",Direct,1015,,,
Lt. Col. Dave Lapan,"Eleven died in aircraft accidents, three in U.S. bombing and five in other accidents.",Direct,1015,,,
Lt. Col. Dave Lapan,A CIA agent also was killed in a prison uprising near Mazar-e-Sharif.,Direct,1015,,,
Safiullah,"He is a good man, with experience in government.",Direct,1015,,,
Wazir Khan,This should not be decided in this way.,Direct,1015,,,
Wazir Khan,"We shed blood for our rights, and we will never, never accept this.",Direct,1015,,,
Chief Warrant Officer Paul Pierce,A U.S. military team sent to the impact site of a Feb. 4 CIA-controlled missile attack in eastern Afghanistan gathered enough material for DNA testing in an attempt to identify those killed.,Paraphrased,1015,,,
Chief Warrant Officer Paul Pierce,The evidence would be used 'to catch those responsible for the Sept. 11 terror attacks and to prevent people from planning future terror attacks.',Direct,1015,,,
United Nations refugee agency,"Thousands of Afghans are still fleeing to Pakistan because of bandit attacks and supply shortages, and it is too soon to send large numbers home.",Paraphrased,1015,,,
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees,"Some 30,000 Afghans have fled to camps near Chaman, Pakistan, and that it registered 1,500 new arrivals at Killi Faizo camp on Wednesday alone.",Paraphrased,1015,,,
Diplomats and security experts,Trying to halt Afghanistan's lucrative drug trade will be one of the greatest problems in policing the country after the fall of the Taliban.,Paraphrased,1015,,,
Government spokesman,"A mortar shell slammed into a school east of Kabul on Thursday, killing one child and injuring about 30.",Paraphrased,1016,,,
Officials,"Officials blamed the incident on Taliban and al-Qaida renegades, although the area is controlled by a warlord who broke months ago from the former ruling militia.",Paraphrased,1016,,,
Interior Ministry official Mohammed Azimi,"The explosion happened about 10 a.m. at a school in Sarobi, about 40 miles east of Kabul.",Paraphrased,1016,,,
Rossella Miccio,Children as young as 8 were hurt.,Direct,1016,,,
Rossella Miccio,Thirty-five children were in the classroom at the time of the attack.,Direct,1016,,,
Rossella Miccio,"The explosion happened just as lessons were about to start, families of the wounded children told hospital workers.",Paraphrased,1016,,,
Rossella Miccio,Relatives described a large hole in the school's ceiling.,Paraphrased,1016,,,
Interior Ministry official Mohammed Azimi,I had no evidence linking the attack to Taliban or al-Qaida forces but said the groups 'want to sabotage the security and stability of this government of Hamid Karzai.',Direct,1016,,,
Pentagon officials,Several Americans were killed and wounded when a helicopter was shot down over eastern Afghanistan in intense fighting against al-Qaida forces that caused the worst casualties of the 5-month-old war.,Paraphrased,1017,,,
Victoria Clarke,"We have some small numbers of U.S. troops killed,",Direct,1017,,,
Victoria Clarke,It was not clear how many of the soldiers died in the crash and how many were killed by small-arms fire in fighting that broke out after the crash.,Paraphrased,1017,,,
Victoria Clarke,"Military officials did not yet know what type of enemy fire brought down the helicopter, nor whether a search-and-rescue operation had been completed.",Paraphrased,1017,,,
Pentagon,"The helicopter, normally used to ferry supplies or troops, was downed during an assault on suspected al-Qaida and Taliban fighters that the Pentagon says were regrouping south of Gardez.",Paraphrased,1017,,,
Victoria Clarke,"The largest military operation we have been engaged in thus far and in combat, the most loss of life.",Direct,1017,,,
Victoria Clarke,About three dozen U.S. soldiers have been injured since the operation began Friday.,Paraphrased,1017,,,
Victoria Clarke,"More than 1,000 U.S. troops are involved in the operation against opposing forces believed to be mostly al-Qaida.",Paraphrased,1017,,,
Victoria Clarke,There's been some very fierce resistance on the part of al-Qaida. These are the ones who have clearly chosen to fight it out.,Direct,1017,,,
Safi Ullah,The first stage of the offensive was designed to cut the road from Shah-e-Kot to trap al-Qaida and Taliban forces in the mountains.,Paraphrased,1017,,,
Safi Ullah,The plan also involved setting up checkpoints to prevent them from getting out.,Paraphrased,1017,,,
Pakistan Government,Pakistan has closed its border with eastern Afghanistan and deployed extra army units and members of the Khasadar tribal militia to catch any who try to cross the frontier and filter into its Northwest Frontier Province.,Paraphrased,1017,,,
Lester Grau,"""The mujahedeen found that the best anti-helicopter tactics were anti-helicopter ambushes,"" he writes in the magazine ""Infantry.""",Direct,1018,,,
Lester Grau,"""The first variant was to identify likely landing zones and mine them. Then the mujahedeen would position machine guns and RPGs around the landing zone. As the helicopter landed, massed RPG and machine gun fire would tear into the aircraft.""",Direct,1018,,,
Lester Grau,"""It is a proven, cheap killer of technology, which will continue to play a significant role - particularly when conventional forces are pitted against irregular forces,"" Grau writes.",Direct,1018,,,
Lester Grau,"""The chances are, whenever a U.S. soldier is deployed to a trouble spot, the RPG-7 will be part of the local landscape.""",Direct,1018,,,
U.N. peacekeeping force,"""Automatic gunfire that may have come from a compound housing Afghan militiamen struck close to patrolling German soldiers in the first such incident in more than a month.""",Direct,1019,,,
Lt. Col. Ludwig Gedicke,"""No one was injured by the gunfire Friday afternoon near a compound of the northern alliance.""",Direct,1019,,,
Lt. Col. Ludwig Gedicke,"[It is not clear whether the shots were fired intentionally, and whoever fired apparently did not intend to hit the peacekeepers.]",Paraphrased,1019,,,
Lt. Col. Ludwig Gedicke,"""More than 10 rounds of gunfire struck within 30 yards of a dozen soldiers as they patrolled in small armored vehicles near buildings housing northern alliance fighters in eastern Kabul.""",Direct,1019,,,
Lt. Col. Ludwig Gedicke,"""The soldiers got out of the vehicles and searched all the rooms in the nearby compound but found only an old man.""",Direct,1019,,,
Lt. Col. Ludwig Gedicke,"""It was not known for certain whether the gunfire came from the compound, but that police were investigating.""",Direct,1019,,,
British Flight Lt. Tony Marshall,"""I don't think we are overly concerned.""",Direct,1019,,,
British Flight Lt. Tony Marshall,"""By and large it has been extremely quiet. The northern alliance have been extremely disciplined with their weapons.""",Direct,1019,,,
Nazar Mohammed,"""There are still small children being held there. They should have been released before us.""",Direct,1020,,,
Caroline Douilliez,"""614 prisoners had been freed.""",Direct,1020,,,
A deputy of Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum,"""560 prisoners had been freed.""",Direct,1020,,,
Faizullah Zaki,"""2,300 prisoners remained in Shibergan, including 800 foreigners, nearly all of them from Pakistan.""",Direct,1020,,,
Hezmotullah,"""It was like bargaining in the marketplace.""",Direct,1020,,,
Hezmotullah,"""They started at about $660 and went down from there.""",Direct,1020,,,
Unidentified prisoners,[The prisoners told of atrocious conditions in Shibergan - and they appeared to be living proof of their claims.],Paraphrased,1020,,,
Azizullah,"""I'm a farmer. I assure you, I didn't look like this before.""",Direct,1020,,,
Hezmotullah,"[Hezmotullah said that during the month he spent in Shibergan negotiating his brother's release, seven inmates died of malnutrition - a figure corroborated by the released inmates.]",Paraphrased,1020,,,
Abdul Ahad,"""Each seven people would get one piece of bread to share, and then a little rice at night. We didn't even get enough water.""",Direct,1020,,,
Abdul Ahad,"""All we could think of was our stomachs.""",Direct,1020,,,
Unidentified prisoners,[Many inmates claimed the guards took a large part of the donated food.],Paraphrased,1020,,,
Unidentified,[Many of those released still wore the plastic bracelets they said U.S. officials placed on them after interrogation to make sure they had no links to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist network.],Paraphrased,1020,,,
Abdul Ahad,"""When we were surrounded, our commanders told us to surrender, but when we got to the jail none of the commanders were there.""",Direct,1020,,,
Abdul Ahad,[He said he was overjoyed when village elders visited him in prison and told him that the Taliban had been defeated.],Paraphrased,1020,,,
Abdul Ahad,"""They said, 'You're free.'""",Direct,1020,,,
Abdul Ahad,"""They said, 'Nobody will force you to join any army. You can go wherever you want.'""",Direct,1020,,,
Abdul Ahad,"""I was so happy.""",Direct,1020,,,
Marine Gen. Peter Pace,"""It's possible that the leader we were looking for is among the dead, it's possible he is among the detained, it's possible that he wasn't there or that he slipped away.""",Direct,1021,,,
Marine Gen. Peter Pace,[Interrogators are still trying to figure out who they got in an operation Sunday in which five people were killed and 32 captured in a compound north of the former Taliban stronghold of Kandahar.],Paraphrased,1021,,,
Marine Gen. Peter Pace,[He declined to name the target of the raid by U.S. special forces or describe the compound or intelligence that led troops there.],Paraphrased,1021,,,
Unidentified defense officials,[Other defense officials said on condition of anonymity that an initial evaluation seems to indicate that no high leaders are among those detained.],Paraphrased,1021,,,
Unidentified defense officials,"[They were still being interrogated to figure out whether they should be held, released or turned over to Afghan authorities.]",Paraphrased,1021,,,
Marine Gen. Peter Pace,[Pace also said the U.S. training program for helping build an Afghan national army was beginning Tuesday with the first 250 soldiers and another 160 to follow soon.],Paraphrased,1021,,,
Marine Gen. Peter Pace,"[The U.S. military hopes some 18,000 soldiers can be trained in the next year and a half. Training is to be given to Afghan instructors who will eventually take over from the Americans, officials have said.]",Paraphrased,1021,,,
Marine Gen. Peter Pace,"[Pace also announced a huge weapons cache was found over the weekend south of Gardez that included mortars, tanks and over a million rounds of ammunition.]",Paraphrased,1021,,,
Marine Gen. Peter Pace,[Pace said the find was one of the largest of the war - if not the largest - and that it would either be destroyed in place or turned over to the new army for use in training.],Paraphrased,1021,,,
Maj. Bryan Hilferty,"[At Bagram, the main coalition base, a U.S. military spokesman, Maj. Bryan Hilferty, said Monday that some of those captured by U.S. special forces in Sunday's raid had been injured and were being treated at a clinic on the base.]",Paraphrased,1021,,,
Unidentified U.S. military,"[The other five people were killed when they opened fire on the U.S. troops, who returned fire, the U.S. military said.]",Paraphrased,1021,,,
Maj. Bryan Hilferty,"[Hilferty refused to comment further on the captives, who were being questioned at Bagram.]",Paraphrased,1021,,,
Unidentified Pentagon officials,"[Pentagon officials found no fault with the intelligence or the way the assault was carried out, blaming the tragic ending on men in the compound who they say began shooting first when American troops stormed the compound.]",Paraphrased,1021,,,
